# Terms &amp; Entities

SEA requires certain entities to be provided or generated to support the protocol. These are detailed below, and their generation or usage is further explained throughout the protocol definition.

## Service Verification Pair
The Service Verification Secret Key (SVSK) and Service Verification Public Key (SVPK) are used to validate the source of messages from the service. They are generated by the service, and the SVSK is never transmitted or shared. The SVPK must be pre-known by the client, having been shared via a trusted method. The SVPK must never be dynamically set based on a network-provided value, as doing so risks an attacker injecting a malicious public key in place of the trusted original.
* Service Verification Secret Key: A 2048-bit RSA private key in PEM format
* Service Verification Public Key: The public key for the above, in PEM format

## Client ID
A 32-byte alphanumeric string unique to the client, but not the client instance. SEA does not enforce pre-sharing or verification of the CID as part of the protocol, but it allows for service extensibility such as support for per-client Service Verification keys. The CID is not considered sensitive, so should not be relied on for client identity verification.

## Client Encryption Pair
The Client Encryption Secret Key (CESK) and Client Encryption (CEPK) are generated at the beginning of a new trust session being established. They are generated by the client, and the CESK is never transmitted, shared, or re-used between sessions.

[//]: # (TODO Check length)
* Client Encryption Secret Key: 64-byte string
* Client Encryption Public Key: 64-byte string

## Session ID
A 32-byte alphanumeric string unique to the session. The Session ID is not considered sensitive, so should not be relied on for user identity verification. Requests with a given Session ID must always use the associated keys.

## Time Offset
An integer indicated the difference in seconds between the time reported by the client and that observed by the service during the initial handshake. This is used during the assessment of timed verifications.

## Service Encryption Pair
The Service Encryption Secret Key (SESK) and Service Encryption (SEPK) are generated at the beginning of a new trust session being established. They are generated by the service, and the SESK is never transmitted, shared, or re-used between sessions.

[//]: # (TODO Check length)
* Service Encryption Secret Key: 64-byte string
* Service Encryption Public Key: 64-byte string

## Traffic Encryption Key
[//]: # (TODO Check length)
A 64-byte string. The Traffic Encryption Key (TEK) is the encryption key used for traffic passed between the client and service. This is separately computed by both parties following the sharing of the public keys. The TEK must never be transmitted, nor shared between sessions.

## Accepted Dormancy Period
An integer between 1 and 60. The Accepted Dormancy Period (ADP) represents the maximum number of minutes of dormancy the service will accept between requests from the client. Dormancy is defined as a period during which the service receives no secure requests from the client, and is reset following each successful request is received.

## Timed Verification Key
A 16-character alphanumeric string, the Timed Verification Key (TVK) is used as the basis of time-based verifications that protects against replay attacks. The TVK is generated by the service and shared in an encrypted form with the client, but is not otherwise transmitted nor shared between sessions.

## Timed Verification Value
A hexadecimal string representing a SHA-1 hash calculated from a string concatenation of the current time (minus any Time Offset) and the Timed Verification Key.